Low in this lecture I want to provide a solution to our previous challenge which was implementing the
composite design pattern for four college hierarchy so let's political and bring up this anthology.
We're gonna create a project.
The project name is just gonna be a composite solution
so we're gonna say composite solution
our first step is going to create the component the component is gonna be the faculty interface.
So we're gonna say new Java class and we're just gonna call this faculty
and the faculty is gonna have one method which is get details.
Remember that the client sees this interface and this interface allows us to treat leaves and both composites
the same so string get details.
We're then going to create a leaf node under this.
There's no leafs under this.
So this is actually gonna be an interface too.
So I want to make sure it's an interface.
And the leaf know that we're gonna create is called professor.
So this will be class professor implements faculty right and leave no time nothing underneath them.
This is the primitive object can be treated the same way as a composite.
We're going to three member variables.
We're gonna say M name
and position we're having the m there just remember variable in the class is not necessarily about good
naming convention so I don't focus as much as I should on it.
You know you're supposed to write quality code so you should be using good name conventions good coding
conventions coding standards whatever you want to follow.
And then we have office number
of the like that our constructor is just going to set up remember variables.
So it's gonna be an overload constructor that takes those three parameters something like this professor
name position office number and it's gonna set up your member variables we're going to override the
details by displaying the name and the position.
We're not going to display the office number but the gist here is that the professor going to have many
more details many more things you need to the professor.
And this leaf note.
So we're just gonna say get details and implement it that way.
The next thing we need to do is we need to create the composite the composite is gonna be the supervisor.
So we're gonna say new Java class and this is gonna be named supervisor.
And this is also going to implement the faculty interface.
Make sure I did that with Professor implements faculty.
This is also going to have a couple member variables the name and the department name.
So private String name private String department name.
This also is gonna have a list because it needs to store its leaf notes its primitive objects.
So here we're gonna say it's gonna contain faculty that's just gonna be in my faculty list
our supervisor constructor is gonna allow us to create a supervisor with a specific name and it's also
gonna instantiate the list new array list faculty instead of doing in a class loading time we're gonna
have some methods for adding and removing to the list.
So and again remember these these data operation data structure methods can go in the component interface
it's perfectly fine it makes it more usable from the client in terms of everything is the same but it
also violates couple principles so I'm just gonna put the list out in the supervisor we then say public
void add we're gonna add a new faculty professor and here we're just going to add to the list my faculty
list add Prof
something like that and we've got to make sure we have brackets curly braces I should say I always tend
to use the terms brackets embrace these interchangeably even though they're different we're gonna have
a remove
again taking a faculty professor as a parameter and we're gonna remove from the fact list we need this
because the requirements for this assignment were to remove professor so we're going to actually use
this we didn't use it in the example in class we're also gonna be able to return a child node so we're
gonna have a list that can be returned which is the child component in case we want to see specific
subordinates for a particular chairperson or d to get details we're gonna override and just return the
name and the department name something like that
OK.
And that's it.
Now we need to create the client that uses the composite pattern.
So we're gonna say no to have a class we'll just name a client.
And this is gonna have a main method
and this is gonna do our grouping.
So here we're gonna create a couple supervisors
we'll say one is the technology Dean used using constructor will set up some properties we'll just say
Dr. Mike and they're gonna be the dean of technology.
This over
we'll do the same thing for a couple more we'll make a chair because a chair is also a supervisor we'll
say chair of math department and this person will just be called Dr. John
and we'll say they're the chair of the math department
chair of math department and then our other seat supervisor will be the chair of the computer science
department.
So here was a chair of computer science
department if I could use an acronym there that would be better.
But I want a long variable name.
This will be Dr. Ian.
And they'll be the chair of computer science department
chair of.
And we'll make this one chair of C S Department.
How about that.
Not as long.
Now we want to create a couple professors and so we'll create a couple of math professors and a couple
computer science engineering professors because I'm getting tired of typing.
I'll copy and paste here we have one professor math professor one we have math professor two math professor
one is a new math professor and they just have so-and-so names and we have an error here it looks like
I'm missing a double quote something like that always problems when you copy and paste from a different
editor.
And we're going to create three computer science professors
again just with generic names
make sure the double quotes are good.
Now we're gonna start organizing things our technology did.
Dean is gonna add both the chairs to its composite so here we can say technology Dean to add the chair
of the math department in the chair of the computer science department and then we're also going to
have the math department add their math professors.
So I will say chair of math department to add math professors we also have computer science professors
and they should be reporting to the chair so we're going to go ahead and add them to the composite chair
of computer science department that add three CSC professors.
Now we want to print out some details we're going to print out that this is the composite pattern demo
and that this college has the following structure
so a couple informational things we're then going to get the details on the technology Dean
and then we're also gonna get all the faculty for the technology to Dean.
So here we're gonna call the Get My faculty and this is gonna return a list all right.
Because we want to get everybody under the technology Dean and so on then to print that out we're gonna
have to have a for loop.
Could have done a fast iteration.
I'm just gonna do four and die and so this is gonna display all of the chairs and it's gonna tab them
in one one tab to get all the details for the chairs and really this advice be a better name there should
be faculty for technology Dean.
But I just named two chairs we're gonna get all the math professors you know those are the chairs.
Those are the chairs because we're getting the chairs for technology Dean.
Now we're gonna get all the math professors and print those out so we're gonna say let's faculty math
professors get my faculty and print it out with two taps and we're gonna do the same for the CSC professors
and also print that out with two taps.
We made a requirement in the assignment that after displaying those we're gonna want computer science
professor is gonna leave.
So we're gonna have to remove them.
So we're gonna say Chair Chair of computer science department remove and we're gonna remove CSC professor
to were then going to print out a statement saying after we removed that Professor something like that
somebody left the organization where they're gonna get the new professors for the from the chair and
display those to see if the remove actually worked so CSC professors is now gonna be equal to the chair
of the computer science department and it's gonna get their faculty and it's gonna go through and print
them and we should no longer see Professor two because they just left and that meets all the requirements
from the assignment.
Now hopefully we'll build on and make any dumb errors so we'll say build and how do you we were able
to build.
Now let's run our client that over a bit say run client and we could see all the output in sort of a
hierarchy so we can say the college has the following structure and has a Dean Dr. Mike who's dean of
technology has two chairs under the dean of technology and then a multiple professors under each chair.
We could have printed this a little bit better to see the exact professors under the math department
and the exact CSC put officers on the C.S. department we would just have to basically change our hoarding
of prints and then after the CSC professor to leaves the organization.
We then only have Professor one and Professor two for CSC and so that meets the requirements of the
assignment this is the solution.
If you have any questions please ask them in the Q and A.
Thank you.